Abbasid Caliphate
During the revolution that brought this dynasty to power, Wasit was besieged after the losing side
abandoned Kufa. The Anarchy at Samarra followed the assassination of this dynasty's ruler
al-Mutawakkil. This dynasty stopped the westward expansion of the Tang Dynasty at the Batlle of
Talas. Harun al-Rashid established the House of Wisdom in Baghdad during -- for 10 points -- what
caliphate that overthrew the Umayyads?

Airplane!
In this film, a woman who asks for something light to read is given a leaflet on Jewish sports
legends. A child in this film realizes that Roger Murdock is actually the basketball player Kareem
Abdul-Jabbar. Leslie Nielsen co-stars in this film as a doctor who remarks don't call me Shirley.
Otto the inflatable auto-pilot appears in -- for 10 points -- what 1980 disaster movie parody about
a troubled flight?

Alaska
A senator from this state attacked net neutrality in a 2006 speech that described the Internet as a
series of tubes. In this state's 2010 Republican Senate primary, Joe Miller defeated an incumbent
who nevertheless went on to be re-elected as a write-in candidate. Ted Stevens and Lisa Murkowski
have both represented -- for 10 points -- what state formerly governed by 2008 vice presidential
nominee Sarah Palin?

Amazons
Herodotus claimed these people were called Oiorpata by the Scythians whose lands they settled after
losing to the Greeks in battle. Hera caused these people to believe that their ruler had been
abducted by a visiting hero. Members of this group included Melanippe, Antiope, and Penthesilea.
During his ninth labor, Heracles won the girdle of Hippolyta, a queen of -- for 10 points -- what
tribe of warrior women?

calculus
The relationship between antiderivatives and definite integrals is given by the second part of the
fundamental theorem of which branch of mathematics?

clarinet
This instrument plays the Abyss of Birds movement in Olivier Messiaen's Quartet for the End of Time.
It has a solo part in the last movement of Leonard Bernstein's Prelude, Fugue and Riffs. Strings and
harp join this instrument in an Aaron Copland concerto. Ross Gorman improvised an effect on it while
rehearsing a 1924 work by George Gershwin. For 10 points -- what woodwind plays a glissando to open
Rhapsody in Blue?

congressional districts
The subtitle of Richard Fenno's 1978 book Home Style refers to 18 of these places analyzed using
soak and poke empirical methodology. The Supreme Court struck down examples of these places designed
to promote racial discrimination in the 1960 case of Gomillion v. Lightfoot. The census is used to
create 435 roughly same-sized examples of -- for 10 points -- what places that can be unfairly
gerrymandered?

Elizabeth I
This ruler send a clockwork organ to Sultan Murad III, although Murad died before the gift arrived.
This ruler expelled Bernardino de Mendoza from court after the exposure of the Throckmorton Plot,
which threatened this ruler. Sir Francis Walsingham coordinated spies under this ruler. In a speech
to troops at Tilbury, she claimed to have the heart and stomach of a king. For 10 points -- name
this Tudor queen of England

Frankenstein
This family's patriarch says that the work of Cornelius Agrippa and Paracelsus is sad trash. Before
dying of scarlet fever, this family's matriarch entrusts the care of Ernest and William to an
adopted daughter named Elizabeth. Another member of this family recounts his studies at Ingolstadt
to the Arctic explorer Captain Walton. For 10 points -- the scientist Victor has what title surname
in a novel by Mary Shelley?

gluons
The TASSO collaboration at PETRA found the first direct evidence for these particles by studying
three-jet events. A yet-unconfirmed prediction of the Standard Model is that these particles
assemble into balls. These massless vector gauge bosons come in eight colors, and form hadrons along
with quarks. The strong force is carried by -- for 10 points -- what particles that hold nuclei
together?

Jacinda Ardern
In August 2018 this leader dismissed Clare Curran from the cabinet for not disclosing a meeting with
tech mogul Derek Handley. This leader and Emmanuel Macron hosted a May 2019 call with tech companies
over extremist content online, two months after 51 people were killed in mosque shootings in her
country. In 2018 she gave birth to her daughter while in office. For 10 points -- name this prime
minister of New Zealand.

Jack Kerouac
What Beat Generation figure fictionalized himself as Sal Paradise in his novel On the Road?

Kurt Vonnegut
In a story by this author, Helene and Henry Nash fall in love when they meet as actors in a
production of A Streetcar Named Desire, then ask variants of the title question as they are cast as
lovers in other famous plays. He used the term mouse-traps to describe the twist endings in his
stories, such as Who Am I This Time? He wrote a story in which Nancy McLuhan is kidnapped by the
Nothinghead Billy the Poet, who refuses to take Ethical Birth Control drugs. He wrote a story that
culminates in a levitating dance between a ballerina named the Empress and the title character, a
kid with above-average intelligence who is killed by the Handicapper General Diana Glampers. For 10
points, name this author of Welcome to the Monkey House, Harrison Bergeron, and Slaughterhouse-Five.

Lake Chad
What lake fed by the Chari River has shrunk drastically as the Sahara Desert has expanded and is
near N'Djamena in its namesake African country?

methionine
A version of this amino acid attached to an adenosine molecule serves as a common methyl donor
cofactor. Chloroplasts, mitochondria, and bacteria use a formyl derivative of this compound.
Cysteine and this compound are the only amino acids to contain sulfur. This amino acid is encoded by
AUG, the start codon. For 10 points -- name this amino acid used by ribosomes to begin protein
translation.

Mikhail Bulgakov
A character created by this author gets a job with the help of Shvonder after adopting the
nonsensical name Poligraf Poligrafovich. This author wrote a novel in which Berlioz is beheaded by a
streetcar. This author of Heart of a Dog wrote a book that interweaves the story of Pontius Pilate
with the story of Satan's time in Soviet-era Moscow. For 10 points -- name this author of The Master
and Margarita.

multiple inheritance
When this technique is used with Python's new-style classes, the C3 linearization algorithm defines
resolution. Java expanded partial support of this technique in version 8 by introducing default
methods in interfaces. This technique can lead to a diamond problem in which a method has
conflicting definitions in two parents. For 10 points -- name this type of inheritance in which a
class has more than one superclass.

Namibia
This country is home to the mixed race Rehoboth Basters. Its largest ethnic group, the Ovambo, form
a majority of its dominant SWAPO political party. Until 1994 this country's southern neighbor
controlled its Penguin Islands and its deepwater port of Walvis Bay, which is south of this
country's isolated Skeleton Coast. Windhoek is the capital of -- for 10 points -- what country
northwest of South Africa?

Nero
What man, who said what an artist dies with me as he expired at the start of the Year of the Four
Emperors, allegedly fiddled in AD 64 as Rome burned?

Norman Schwarzkopf
This man's father was superintendent of the New Jersey state police during the investigation of the
Lindbergh baby kidnapping. This officer commanded ground forces during Operation Urgent Fury, the
U.S. invasion of Grenada. He deployed a left hook strategy to destroy the Republican Guard and
liberate Kuwait while leading coalition troops against Iraq. For 10 points -- what Gulf War general
was nicknamed Stormin' Norman?

quantum entanglement
A system has this property if it has only one non-zero coefficient in its Schmidt decomposition.
Bell pairs have this property maximally. It explains a thought experiment in which the Heisenberg
uncertainty principle appears to be inconsistent with relativity, called the EPR paradox. Two
particles can have properties linked by -- for 10 points -- what quantum phenomenon that Einstein
called spooky action at a distance?

Ralph Northam
A 2017 Latino Victory FUnd ad supporting this politician portrayed a pickup truck trying to run down
minority children. After this man spoke in favor of Kathy Tran's Repeal Act regarding third-term
abortion, he was accused of wanting to execute a baby after birth. A photo from a 1984 med school
yearbook may show this man in blackface, next to a person in a KKK outfit. For 10 points -- name
this former governor of Virginia.

Song Dynasty
A chancellor during this dynasty who instituted the New Policies was opposed by the conservative
Sima Guang. Its second emperor signed the Treaty of Shangyuan, which gave up the Sixteen
Prefectures. Taizu founded this dynasty, which moved its capital to Hangzhou from Kaifeng after the
Jurchens conquered its northern territories. For 10 points -- name this dynasty that Kublai Khan
overthrew to found the Yuan dynasty.

souls
This title entity distinguishes a man who is coming to you on a dusty road in a Sam & Dave song. The
player awakens in the Northern Undead Asylum in a video game whose title refers to these things.
Double consciousness is examined in a W.E.B. Du Bois book named for these things of Black Folk. The
poem Invictus declares I am the captain of -- for 10 points -- what incorporeal entity contrasted
with mind and body?

trigonal planar
The interaction of a nucleophile with a center of this geometry is described by the Burgi-Dunitz
angle. Nucleophiles attack centers with this geometry in addition-elimination reactions, such as
hydrolysis of an ester. Boron compounds often have this geometry, also seen in sp2 hybridized
carbons such as ethylene. For 10 points -- name this geometry in which bond angles of 120 degrees
separate three atoms.

Truman Capote
This author wrote about people who are murdered after voting to divert water from a wealthy rancher
in Handcarved Coffins, which appeared in his book Music for Chameleons. Floyd Wells snitches on a
former roommate to the investigator Alvin Dewey in a book by this man that ends with the execution
of Dick Hickock and Perry Smith. For 10 points -- what man detailed the murder of the Clutter family
in his book In Cold Blood?

two
Goldbach's conjecture suggests that the sum of exactly this many primes can be used to express every
even integer greater than this number. Mersenne primes are of the form one less than a power of this
number. Twin primes are groups of prime numbers separated by this value, which is the first value
used in the Sieve of Eratosthenes to eliminate composite numbers from the list of integers. For ten
points, name this only even prime number.

two pi
This number times i is the denominator of the Cauchy integral formula. This is the smallest positive
x for which e to the ix equals 1. 1 over the square root of this number is used to standardize the
standard normal distribution. The tau manifesto supports using this number, rather than half of it,
in teaching math. For 10 points -- what number is the period of the sine and cosine functions?

View of Toledo
On the left side of this painting, a castle built by the Knights Templar sits on a hill above a
structure that may represent Agali, a monastery once led by Saint Ildefonso. This painting
exaggerates the height of a cathedral spire. In its foreground, rolling green hills border a river
that is spanned by the Alcantara bridge. A stormy sky appears above the title Spanish city in -- for
10 points -- what painting by El Greco?

Zadie Smith
This author contrasted the novels Remainder and Netherland in Two Directions for the Novel, an essay
included in her book Changing My Mind. Critic James Wood coined the term hysterical realism in an
essay about a book by this author in which Millat joins the Muslim fundamentalist group KEVIN. For
10 points -- name this British author who created the best friends Archie Jones and Samad Iqbal in
her 2000 novel White Teeth.
